Added proposal to move HTTP bridge using OpenAPI 3.1.0 (#157)
strimzi/proposals: 104-bridge-vertx5-openapi-3.1.0.md

> # Move HTTP bridge to OpenAPI 3.1.0 with Vert.x 5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Migrate HTTP bridge to OpenAPI 3.1.0 with Vert.x 5
```

> This proposal recommends updating the HTTP bridge in the Strimzi project to adopt OpenAPI 3.1.0, the latest minor release in the 3.x specification series.

Reviewer: Do we want to add a bit of context?

_OpenAPI is a standard for describing RESTful APIs using a JSON or YAML format._

```json
"RecordValue": {
  "title": "RecordValue",
  "description": "Value representation for a record. It can be an array, a JSON object or a string",
  "oneOf": [
      {
          "type": "array",
          "items": {}
      },
      {
          "type": "object",
          "nullable": true
      },
      {
          "type": "string"
      }
  ],
  "nullable" : true
}
```

A similar use of `nullable` is found in the `NewTopic` [definition](https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-bridge/blob/main/src/main/resources/openapi.json#L2233), which governs topic creation behavior.

## Motivation

The Vert.x team is preparing to release Vert.x 5.x, which introduces several significant changes.
One major change, particularly relevant for OpenAPI v3 support in the bridge, is the transition from the `vertx-web-openapi` component to the new `vertx-web-openapi-router` and `vertx-openapi` components.
This shift also includes an update to the underlying JSON schema validation library.

This new validation library has been refactored to align more closely with the [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/) specification.

> Such specification defines a way for a JSON object to be null, by using the `type: null` [declaration](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/null).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This specification defines how to represent a null JSON value, by using the `type: null` [declaration](https://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/null).
```

This upgrade enables the OpenAPI specification to fully align with the JSON Schema standard by replacing the now unsupported `nullable` flag with the `type: null` declaration.

For example, the updated `RecordValue` schema would look like this:

```json
"RecordValue": {
  "title": "RecordValue",
  "description": "Value representation for a record. It can be an array, a JSON object or a string",
  "oneOf": [
    {
      "type": "array",
      "items": {}
    },
    {
      "type": "object"
    },
    {
      "type": "string"
    },
    {
      "type": "null"
    }
  ]
}
```

A similar change would also be required for the `NewTopic` schema definition to ensure compatibility with the updated JSON Schema validation in Vert.x 5.x.

The OpenAPI version would also be updated within the specification itself, as shown below:

```json
"openapi": "3.1.0"
```

## Affected/not affected projects

The only affected project is the Strimzi HTTP bridge. 

## Compatibility

From the perspective of an HTTP client sending a record with `value: null` or creating a new topic without specifying the partition count and replication factor, this change introduces no behavioral differences.

> For the HTTP bridge itself, aside from replacing the `nullable` flag with the JSON Schema-compliant `type: null` declaration, the rest of the OpenAPI specification remains largely compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the HTTP bridge itself, aside from replacing the `nullable` flag with the JSON Schema-compliant `type: null` declaration, the rest of the OpenAPI specification remains compatible.
```

The main caveat with this upgrade is that, to address the compatibility issue, the project cannot follow the usual deprecation path where the existing OpenAPI 3.0.0 specification is supported alongside the new version for a transitional period before removal, as was done previously when migrating from OpenAPI 2.0.0 to 3.0.0.

However, this should not cause big issues since this update involves a minor version bump.
Apart from the removal of `nullable`, the OpenAPI 3.1.0 specification appears to be backward compatible with 3.0.0.

## Rejected alternatives

> N/A

Reviewer: Is it worth mentioning why staying on Vert.x.4 was not viable?
